# Hashmap- More details https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/internal-working-of-hashmap-java/- https://www.java67.com/2017/08/top-10-java-hashmap-interview-questions.html- INTERVIEW QUESTION - https://www.interviewbit.com/hashmap-interview-questions/- Store values as key value pair - Contains only unique keys.- May have one null key and multiple null values.- It is non synchronized.- It maintains no order.- The initial default capacity of Java HashMap class is 16 with a load factor of 0.75.- HashMap class extends AbstractMap class and implements Map interface.- Default size of map is 16, but the load factor is 0.75, this means when 75% of the map is full, - then double size of the hashmap will be created## hashCode() method: - hashCode() method is used to get the hash code of an object. - hashCode() method of the object class returns the memory reference of an object in integer form. - Definition of hashCode() method is public native hashCode(). - It indicates the implementation of hashCode() is native because there is not any direct method in java to fetch the reference of the object. - It is possible to provide your implementation of hashCode().- In HashMap, hashCode() is used to calculate the bucket and therefore calculate the index.## equals() method: - This method is used to check whether 2 objects are equal or not. - This method is provided by the Object class. You can override this in your class to provide your implementation.- HashMap uses equals() to compare the key to whether they are equal or not. - If the equals() method return true, they are equal otherwise not equal.## How HashMap works internally- Map<String,Integer> map = new HashMap();- When you create an instance of HashMap, it will create 16 buckets by default.- Each bucket is known as Node (A linked list having 4 fields)    - 1. Hash    - 2. Key    - 3. Value    - 4. Next Node<K,V>(the hash of the next bucket)- When you call put method- ```    map.put("ab",1);  ```- Here the hashCode method create the hash of the key - ab.## How put method works- When you call ```map.put("ab",1);```, the hashcode of the key will be generated and store in the node- index = Index = hashcode(Key) & (n-1) - as per the index, it will put the element into that node## What happen if the hashcode of 2 key are same```        String s1 = "FB";        String s2 = "ea";        map.put(s1,111);        map.put("s2",222);        // now s1 and s2 hashcode will be same and how it's behave        // after debugging at the end of the program        // this is known as hash colision```- When the hashcode of 2 key are same, this is known as hash collision- In this case, first at some index, first value will be loaded with the 4 values(hash, key, value, next)- next is nothing but the hash of the second key, this means, it will create another linked list with the other values (hash, key, value, next)## What happens when we try to enter 2 same key```        String s1 = "aa";        String s2 = "aa";        map.put(s1,111);        map.put("s2",222);        // now s1 and s2 hashcode will be same and how it's behave        // after debugging at the end of the program        // this is known as hash colision``` - With duplicate key, it will be updated it's value which we pass later- In this case, 111 replaced with 222## What happens when we enter null key- If the key is null, it will always go to 0th position of the map## How get method works in hashmap- map.get(key)- This method will calculate the hashcode of the key and by formula, it will get the index of the hash- In that index there will be a linked list with 4 values(hash, key, value, next)- It will check the hash of the key with the hash of the node (linked list) key, then it will check the key with the key inside the node (linked list)- Now both the values matching, it will return the value of the node, that is the 3 item of the linked list## What happens when same hashcode key are present in the linked list- It will check the hash of the key passed to the get method- Though both the hash is same, now it will check the key of the first node, if it matches, it will return the value- If the key does not match, it will jump to the next node using the next element in the hashmap- It will check the key and if matches, it will return the value# Interview Questions## (Solutions) [https://www.java67.com/2017/08/top-10-java-hashmap-interview-questions.html]1) How does the put() method of HashMap works in Java?2) What is the requirement for an object to be used as a key or value in HashMap?3) What will happen if you try to store a key that is already present in HashMap?4) Can you store a null key in Java HashMap?5) Can you store a null value inside HashMap in Java?6) How does HashMap handle collisions in Java?7) Which data structure HashMap represents?8) Which data structure is used to implement HashMap in Java?9) Can you store a duplicate key in HashMap?10) Can you store the duplicate value in Java HashMap?11) Is HashMap thread-safe in Java?12) What will happen if you use HashMap in a multithreaded Java application?13) What are the different ways to iterate over HashMap in Java?14) How do you remove a mapping while iterating over HashMap in Java?15) In which order mappings are stored in HashMap?16) Can you sort HashMap in Java?17) What is the load factor in HashMap?18) How does resize happens in HashMap?19) How many entries you can store in HashMap? What is the maximum limit ?20) What is the difference between the capacity and size of HashMap in Java ?21) What will happen if two different keys of HashMap return the same hashcode() ?HashMap Interview Questions for Freshers1.Explain the internal working of a HashMap.2.What is the time complexity in terms of big o notation of pushing and retrieving an element from a hashmap?3.State the differences between a Hashmap and a Hashtable in Java.4.Can you store multiple keys with the same value in a hashmap?5.Specify different methods of creating a hashmap in java along with implementation.6.Specify whether hashmaps in Java are thread-safe or not?7.Does hashmap allow you to store null values?8.What is the order in which keys are stored in a hashmap?9.How can iteration be performed in a HashMap?10.How Does Java's Capacity And Size Of Hashmap Differ?11.Discuss the approach for calculating all the equal combinations formed by a pair of numbers in an array using a hashmap i.e The numbers must satisfy these two conditions: nums[i] == nums[j] and i < j Answer)12.What is collision in HashMap?13.Which property of a hashmap is used to find the intersection of two arrays?HashMap Interview Questions for Experienced14.As we know that hashcodes are generated for each and every key but what happens when the same hashcode is generated for distinct keys?15.Distinguish between a Hashmap and ConcurrentHashMap in Java along with the implementation of both.16.What is the maximum number of entries you can store in HashMap?17.Define LinkedHashMap in Java18.Which is the best technique to handle collision in a hashmap.19.Distinguish between a hashmap and a Treemap.20.How can a hashmap be used to check whether two given arrays are equal or not i.e they contain the same elements or not? Given the arrays can be unsorted.21.What factors determine the performance of a hashmap?HashMap Coding Interview Questions22.You will be given an unsorted array of integers and a target t. How will you implement a program using a Hashmap to find the position of two numbers whose sum equals target t?23.Write a program to show how can we retrieve values from a hashmap and state which method is used for it.24.Write a program to find the highest frequency of a character in a given string25.4 sum using hashmap: You will be given four arrays arr1, arr2, arr3, and arr4 all of length n,you have to return the count of tuples (i, j, k, l) satisfying the conditions: 0 <= i, j, k, l < n nums1[i] + nums2[j] + nums3[k] + nums4[l] == 026.Which method is used for checking whether a particular key or a value is present in a HashMap or not? Write a program for checking whether a particular key or a value is present in a HashMap or not. If present return true else return false.27.Which method is used for finding out the total number of key-value pairs present in a hashmap?Give example.28.Design and implement a class which contains two function find() as well as add()29.Which method is used for removing or deleting all the key-value pairs? Write a program for removing all the key-value pairs from a HashMap.30.Write a program to make a hashmap synchronized in java.HashMap MCQ QuestionsIn the world of programming, hashing is a method of storing key-value pairs and this is achieved by making use of HashMaps in Java. In addition to storing key-val pairs, HashMaps are extensively used for solving a range of problems in information technology. By reducing the time complexity of various operations, hashmaps can make problem-solving much quicker when used in combination with different data structures.What is a HashMap?A collection based on the map which is used for storing key-value pairs in Java is known as a HashMap. All the keys which are stored in a Hashmap are unique.Let's see the syntax for how we can create a HashMap in Java:HashMap<Key, Value_mapped_to_the_key> name_of_your_map = new HashMap<>();To give you an idea of HashMap let’s consider an example:Suppose you want to store the roll number of students in a class along with their names then you can easily do so with the help of HashMaps.The name serves as the key for the hashmap and the roll number as the value which can be mapped to the names.Dave	16Robin	19Selena	32Mark	10As you can observe there is no ordering of names because hashmaps do not follow any particular ordering for storing the elements.Some important properties of a Hashmap in Java to remember:Hashmaps are basically used for storing key-value pairs using a hashtableHashmap stores only unique keysThe is no particular ordering of elements in a HashMapImport java.util.HashMap in your program for using a HashMapNow in this article, we will be covering the most important and frequently asked Java HashMap Interview Questions and Answers to help you ace the interviews. We will cover different varieties of questions that cater to both freshers as well as experienced programmers.Crack your next tech interview with confidence!Take a free mock interview, get instant⚡️ feedback and recommendation💡Attempt NowHashMap Interview Questions for Freshers1. Explain the internal working of a HashMap.A hashmap uses a hashtable but what many people don’t know is that it is internally created using two data structures namely an array and a linked list. Whenever you declare a hashmap what is going to happen internally is that it will create an array of buckets. The buckets are referred to as nodes or you can say a linked list. These nodes contain mainly:The key,ValueHashcodeAddress of the next node.Now, when you insert values in a key like this:map.put("hashmap implementation in Java",1);Then hashcode will be calculated by the put method. This hashcode will help us to store the key at a particular index. Also, hashcode will make the process of retrieving the values faster.hashcode=hash(“hashmap implementation in Java”);This hash code is further computed and will generate an index for storing the value. The value of our key will be stored at the index given by the hashcode in the form of a LinkedList.It’s important to note that Java 8 introduced BST in place of a linked list to make retrieval of the key-value pairs more efficient.2. What is the time complexity in terms of big o notation of pushing and retrieving an element from a hashmap?   Time complexity is the measure of the number of CPU cycles utilized by a program to execute.   Hashmap time complexity for pushing and retrieving the elements is the order of 1 i.e O(1) using put and get methods respectively.3. State the differences between a Hashmap and a Hashtable in Java.   HashMap Vs HashTable   Parameter	HashMap	HashTable   Synchronization	Hashmap and HashTable are very similar to each other except for the fact that a hashmap does not allow synchronization	Unlike a Hashmap, synchronization is permitted in a Hashtable   Performance	You won't face any performance issues in a hashmap.	Synchronization in a hashtable might sound like a good idea that a particular element would be thread-safe if there’s concurrent access with multiple threads however, the problem with synchronizing every method that allows access to the underlying collection is that it creates performance issues. So you will have performance issues while using a hashtable   Null values	Null values are permitted in a Hashmap i.e you can store as many null values in a hashmap as you want.	Unlike a Hashmap, Null values are not permitted in a hashtable   Null keys	While using a Hashmap you can store only one null key not more than that.   In a Hashtable null keys, as well as null values, are not allowed similar to a ConcurrentHashmap.Iterators	We can use iterators for looping through the key and value pairs in a Hashmap.	We can use enumerators, as well as iterators, for looping through the key and value pairs in a Hashtable.You can download a PDF version of Hashmap Interview Questions.Download PDF4. Can you store multiple keys with the same value in a hashmap?   No, multiple keys with the same value can’t be stored in a hashmap.   When you try to insert a new key that is already present in the hashmap then overriding will happen and the old key will be replaced with the new key and a new value.5. Specify different methods of creating a hashmap in java along with implementation.   Different methods of creating a hashmap are:1) Constructing a hashmap with default capacitySyntax:HashMap<String, Integer> InterviewBIt_map1 = new HashMap<String, Integer>();2) Constructing a hashmap with a defined capacity i.e 50 in our exampleSyntax:HashMap<String, Integer> InterviewBIt_map2 = new HashMap<String, Integer>(50);3) Specifying lead factor along with the capacitySyntax:HashMap<String, Integer> InterviewBIt_map3= new HashMap<String, Integer>(50, 0.5f);4) By copying another map into our mapSyntax:HashMap<String, Integer> InterviewBIt_map4 = new HashMap<String, Integer>( InterviewBIt_map1);6. Specify whether hashmaps in Java are thread-safe or not?   The answer is "NO" i.e java.lang.HashMap does not support thread-safety. If several threads are altering the HashMap, for example, insertions or removals, then a HashMap should not be shared with other threads.   If you want to implement thread-safety then you can either use a ConcurrentHashMap or by using the Collections.synchronizedMap() method.   When data consistency is crucial, Collections.synchronizedMap() should be used, and ConcurrentHashMap should be used where the number of reads and write operations to be performed are less.   Since Collections.synchronizedMap() needs every thread to attain a lock on the whole object to accomplish both read and write operations, this results in slow performance.   With ConcurrentHashMap, threads can simultaneously modify sections while maintaining a lock on individual segments.7. Does hashmap allow you to store null values?   Yes, We can store as many null values in a hashmap as we want but only one null key can be stored not more than that.Let’s see a program that depicts how we can store null values in a hashmap.import java.util.*;  import java.io.*;public class interviewBit {   public static void main(String[] args)   {   HashMap hmap=new HashMap();   hmap.put(1,"Program to store null value");   hmap.put(null,"InterviewBit");   System.out.println(hmap);   }   }OUTPUT:{null=InterviewBit, 1=Program to store null value}8. What is the order in which keys are stored in a hashmap?   There is no particular order for storing keys in a hashmap. All the keys are stored in an unsorted order.   For storing the elements in a particular order a Treemap can be used in Java but a hashmap does not guarantee the ordering of your elements.9. How can iteration be performed in a HashMap?   import java.util.Map;   import java.util.HashMap;public class example_____iteration{public static void main(String[] arg){Map<String,String> INTERVIEW_BIT = new HashMap<String,String>();        INTERVIEW_BIT.put("hashmap coding interview questions", "AT INTERVEWBIT");        INTERVIEW_BIT.put("hashmap programming interview questions", "AT INTERVEWBIT");                for (Map.Entry<String,String> entry : INTERVIEW_BIT.entrySet())            System.out.println("Key = " + entry.getKey() +                             ", Value = " + entry.getValue());    }}Output:Key = hashmap coding interview questions, Value = AT INTERVEWBITKey = hashmap programming interview questions, Value = AT INTERVEWBIT10. How Does Java's Capacity And Size Of Hashmap Differ?    Sometimes it's confusing for students to understand the difference between capacity is size.So basically, HashMap's capacity indicates the number of entries it can hold, while its length indicates how many key-value pairs are presently in existence.11. Discuss the approach for calculating all the equal combinations formed by a pair of numbers in an array using a hashmap i.e The numbers must satisfy these two conditions: nums[i] == nums[j] and i < j Answer)    You all must have studied combinations, so the concept of combinations states that every time we just have to select a pair from n numbers in an array that satisfies the given conditions and the formula for doing so is NCR which is equivalent to n*(n-1)/2.    Now hashmap will be used for calculating the frequency of all the numbers in the array.    While iterating the array we will store the frequency of every element in a hashmap.    The final step would be to iterate over the map and apply the formula n*(n-1)/2, where n is the frequency of each element in the array.12. What is collision in HashMap?    A collision occurs when more than one key generates the same hashCode() value.    An inefficient hashCode() algorithm causes considerable collisions in a hashmap.    An increased number of collisions can affect the performance of a hashmap.13. Which property of a hashmap is used to find the intersection of two arrays?    Since a hashmap stores only unique elements, this property of a hashmap can be used to find intersections i.e common elements of two arrays.    The approach to this problem is: first we will create a hashmap and fill the elements of the first array in it.    The next step is to iterate over the second array and check whether the element is present in the hashmap or not.    In this way, we can find all common elements of two arrays in O(n) time complexity.    HashMap Interview Questions for Experienced14. As we know that hashcodes are generated for each and every key but what happens when the same hashcode is generated for distinct keys?    When the same hashcode is generated for distinct keys then a collision will occur as the bucket address of the two keys will be the same.    We have discussed that internally hashmap uses a linked list therefore the linked list will store them all together.15. Distinguish between a Hashmap and ConcurrentHashMap in Java along with the implementation of both.    Hashmap vs ConcurrentHashMap:ThreadSafe: One of the most significant differences between both is that a Cocurrenthashmap is synchronized internally and thread-safe which makes it suitable for a multithreaded environment whereas a hashmap is non-synchronized as well non-thread-safe which makes it unsuitable for a multithreaded environment.Null Keys And Null Values: As we all know, data is kept in the form of key and value pairs in a hashmap and we can store as many null values in a hashmap as we want but only 1 null key can be stored whereas in a concurrent hashmap null keys, as well as null values, are not permitted.ImplementationsHashmap Implementation:import java.util.*;  import java.io.*;public class interviewBit {   public static void main(String[] args)   {   HashMap hmap=new HashMap();   hmap.put(91,"Hashmap Implementation");   hmap.put(92,"in ");   hmap.put(93,"Java");   hmap.put(null,"InterviewBit");   System.out.println(hmap);   }   }OUTPUT:java -cp /tmp/ZPv88JJ0D2 interviewBit{null=InterviewBit, 91=Hashmap Implementation, 92=in , 93=Java}ConcurrentHashMap implementation:For implementing ConcurrentHashmap we have to import the concurrent package.import java.util.concurrent.ConcurrentHashMap;  public class interviewBit {   public static void main(String[] args)   {   ConcurrentHashMap hmap=new ConcurrentHashMap();   hmap.put(91,"Hashmap Implementation");   hmap.put(92,"in ");   hmap.put(93,"Java");   hmap.put(null,"InterviewBit");   System.out.println(hmap);   }   }   OUTPUT:java -cp /tmp/ZPv88JJ0D2 interviewBitException in thread "main" java.lang.NullPointerExceptionat java.base/java.util.concurrent.ConcurrentHashMap.putVal(ConcurrentHashMap.java:1011)at java.base/java.util.concurrent.ConcurrentHashMap.put(ConcurrentHashMap.java:1006)at interviewBit.main(interviewBit.java:12)As we can observe from the above outputs we can store the null value in the hashmap but it can’t be stored in a ConcurrentHashMap as it gives NullPinterException.16. What is the maximum number of entries you can store in HashMap?    HashMap does not have a maximum number of entries because when the bucket is full, the keys will be added to a linked list, which can store forever until all the memory you have is consumed.17. Define LinkedHashMap in Java    A linked HashMap is implemented in a similar way to a hashmap but contains a doubly LinkedList for querying through all the key-value pairs.    LinkedHashMap stores the key-value pair in order, unlike a hashmap.    You can retrieve the data in the same order as they were inserted in the map i.e the key which was inserted first can be taken out first.    Implementation of LinkedHashMap for understanding how we can insert and retrieve key and value pairs easily:import java.util.LinkedHashMap;public class InterviewBit {public static void main(String[] args) {LinkedHashMap m = new LinkedHashMap();m.put("Linked", new Integer(1));m.put("Map", new Integer(2));Object lobj = m.get("Linked");System.out.println(lobj);}}The output of the above program will be 1.18. Which is the best technique to handle collision in a hashmap.    As part of its collision handling, HashMap employs chaining. In chaining, a linked list is used for placing the key-value pairs inserted into the map with the value already present to avoid collision in the map at a bucket location as the newly inserted value is placed in front of the linked list.19. Distinguish between a hashmap and a Treemap.    Hashmap	Treemap    In a hashmap, no ordering of elements is maintained	The ordering, of elements, is maintained in a treemap.    We can store as many null values in a hashmap as we want but only 1 null key can be stored 	We cannot store any null values or keys in a treemap.    Hashmap is Fast since no ordering of elements is maintained therefore elements can be inserted and retrieved in constant time.	Treemap is slow and most of the functions take logarithmic time.    Hashmap uses arrays and LinkedList which forms a hashtable for its implementation internally.	Treemap is implemented with the help of red-black trees.20. How can a hashmap be used to check whether two given arrays are equal or not i.e they contain the same elements or not? Given the arrays can be unsorted.    A hashmap can be easily used to check whether the given arrays are equal or not.    First, create a hashmap and using a for loop fill the frequency of each and every element of array 1 in the hashmap.    Now, make another loop and decrement the frequency of each and every element of the second array in the hashmap.    In the next step, iterate over the hashmap and check whether all the frequencies are zero or not. Even if any frequency is 1 return false else return true.21. What factors determine the performance of a hashmap?    The performance or efficiency of a hashmap depends basically on two things that are:Capacity - Capacity is defined as the total number of buckets present in a Hashmap and Sixteen is the default capacity when a Hashmap is created by the user. The capacity can be increased when more key-value pairs are added to the hashmap.Load Factor - As discussed in the previous point the capacity of the map can be increased but when should the hashmap increase its# Coding Interview Questions1) 