## HashTable- Hashtable is like hashmap, but it  is synchronised but hashmap is non synchronised- A Hash Table is an array of list. Each list is known as a bucket.The position of bucket is identified by calling the hashcode() method. A Hash Table contains values based on the key. It implements the Map interface and extends Dictionary class.- It contains only unique elements.- It can’t have any null key or value.- It is an array of an index. Each index is known as a bucket/slot.- Let's consider an array have below values- | 0   | 1      | 2      | 3         | 4       | 5    | 6     | 7      | 8     | 9    ||-----|--------|--------|-----------|---------|------|-------|--------|-------|------|| ram | bharat | lakhan | satrughna | krishna | siba | satya | ganesh | durga | Hari |- ## Create HashTable Instance```    public Hashtable(int initialCapacity, float loadFactor)    public Hashtable(int initialCapacity)    public Hashtable() {        this(11, 0.75F);    }```## How to iterate HashTable```    Hashtable<String,String> collectionsExample.hashtable = new Hashtable();    collectionsExample.hashtable.put("A", "Apple");    collectionsExample.hashtable.put("B", "Orange");    collectionsExample.hashtable.put("C", "Mango");    collectionsExample.hashtable.put("D", "Banana");    collectionsExample.hashtable.put("E", "Grapes");        Set<String> keys = collectionsExample.hashtable.keySet();    //Obtaining iterator over set entries    Iterator<String> itr = keys.iterator();        while (itr.hasNext()) {    // Getting Key```##  Contract of hash code() and equal()- During the execution of the application, if hashCode() is invoked more than once on the same Object then it must consistently return the same Integer value, provided no information used in equals(Object) comparison on the Object is modified. - It is not necessary that this Integer value remain the same from one execution of the application to another execution of the same application.- If two objects are equal, according to the equals(Object) method, then hashCode() method must produce the same Integer on each of the two Objects.- If two Objects are unequal, according to the equals(Object) method, It is not necessary the Integer value produced by hashCode() method on each of the two Objects will be distinct. - It can be the same but producing the distinct Integer on each of the two Objects is better for improving the performance of hashing based Collections like HashMap, HashTable, etc.- Note: Equal objects must produce the same hash code as long as they are equal, however unequal objects need not produce distinct hash codes.