# Graph- For More details - https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/graph-and-its-representations/- A graph is a data structure for storing connected data like a network of people on a social media platform.- A graph consists of vertices and edges.- A vertex represents the entity (for example, people) and an edge represents the relationship between entities (for example, a person's friendships).## Directed Graph- If each vertex is pointing to another vertices with direction, i.e each edge have direction## Weighted Graph- our simple graph has edges which are unbiased or unweighted. If instead these edges carry relative weight, this graph is known as a weighted graph.## How To Create A Graph?- Java does not provide a full-fledged implementation of the graph data structure. - However, we can represent the graph programmatically using Collections in Java. - We can also implement a graph using dynamic arrays like vectors.## Graph Representation In Java- By using Adjacency Matrix- By using Adjacency List## By using Adjacency Matrix```   A B C D EA  0 1 0 0 1B  1 0 1 1 1 C  0 1 0 1 0D  0 1 1 0 1E  1 1 0 1 0```- HERE  THE  STRUCTURE LOOKS LIKE THIS- A-B, A-E- B-A, B-C, B-D, B-E- C-B, C-D- D-B, D-C, D-E- E-1, E-B, E-D## Adjacency List: - An array of lists is used. - The size of the array is equal to the number of vertices. - Let the array be an array[]. An entry array[i] represents the list of vertices adjacent to the ith vertex. - This representation can also be used to represent a weighted graph. - The weights of edges can be represented as lists of pairs. ## Depth-first Traversal- Depth-first search (DFS) is a technique that is used to traverse a tree or a graph. - DFS technique starts with a root node and then traverses the adjacent nodes of the root node by going deeper into the graph. - In the DFS technique, the nodes are traversed depth-wise until there are no more children to explore.- **Algorithm**- Step 1: Start with the root node and insert it into the collectionsExample.stack- Step 2: Pop the item from the collectionsExample.stack and insert into the ‘visited’ list- Step 3: For node marked as ‘visited’ (or in visited list), add the adjacent nodes of this node that are not yet marked visited, to the collectionsExample.stack.- Step 4: Repeat steps 2 and 3 until the collectionsExample.stack is empty.## Breadth-first Traversal- Breadth-first (BFS) technique uses a queue to store the nodes of the graph. - As against the DFS technique, in BFS we traverse the graph breadth-wise. - This means we traverse the graph level wise. When we explore all the vertices or nodes at one level we proceed to the next level.- **Algorithm**- Step 1: Begin with the root node and insert it into the queue.- Step 2: Repeat steps 3 and 4 for all nodes in the graph.- Step 3: Remove the root node from the queue, and add it to the Visited list.- Step 4: Now add all the adjacent nodes of the root node to the queue and repeat steps 2 to 4 for each node.[END OF LOOP]- Step 6: EXIT                  