# Class and Objects
## Methods inside object ?
- There are 11 methods in object
- **protected Object clone()** - Used to create and return a copy of this object.
- **boolean equals(Object obj)** - Used to indicate whether some other object is "equal to" this one.
- **protected void finalize()** - garbage collector calls this method on an object when it determines that there are no more references to the object.
- **Class<?> getClass()** - Used to get the runtime class of this Object.
- **int hashCode()** - Used to get a hash code value for the object.
- **void notify()** - Used to wake up a single thread that is waiting on this object's monitor.
- **void notifyAll()** - Used to wake up all threads that are waiting on this object's monitor.
- **String toString()** - Used to get a string representation of the object.
- **void wait()** - marks the current thread to wait until another thread invokes to notify() method or the notifyAll() method for this object.
- **void wait(long timeout)** - marks the current thread to wait until either another thread invokes to notify() method or the notifyAll() method for this object, or a specified amount of time has elapsed.
- **void wait(long timeout, int nanos)** - marks the current thread to wait until another thread invokes to notify() method or the notifyAll() method for this object, or some other thread interrupts the current thread, or a certain amount of real time has elapsed.

## equal
- In java equals() method is used to compare equality of two Objects. The equality can be compared in two ways:
- **Shallow comparison:** The default implementation of equals method is defined in Java.lang.Object class which simply checks if two Object references (say x and y) refer to the same Object. i.e. It checks if x == y. Since Object class has no data members that define its state, it is also known as shallow comparison.
- **Deep Comparison:** Suppose a class provides its own implementation of equals() method in order to compare the Objects of that class w.r.t state of the Objects. That means data members (i.e. fields) of Objects are to be compared with one another. Such Comparison based on data members is known as deep comparison.
- **NOTE: When we override the equals() method, it is necessary to override the hashCode() method. Overriding follow the convention for the hashCode() method that states, the equal object must have equal hash code.**

## hashCode
- hashCode in Java is a function that returns the hashcode value of an object on calling. 
- It returns an integer or a 4 bytes value which is generated by the hashing algorithm.
- In Java, hash code is a 32-bit signed integer value.
- It is a unique id provided by JVM to Java object.
- Each Java object is associated with the hash code.
- The hash code is managed by a hash-based data structure, such as HashTable, HashSet, etc.
- HashCode helps to run the program faster, to fetch the data faster
- comparing two objects by their hash codes will give the result 20 times faster than comparing them using the equals() function.
- It is used for more efficient storage of data by collections.
- This facilitates quicker access. The values are stored in array-like “buckets”.
- Hashcode is not the memory location of the object
- As much as is reasonably practical, the hashCode method defined by class Object does return distinct integers for distinct objects. (This is typically implemented by converting the internal address of the object into an integer, but this implementation technique is not required by the Java™ programming language.)
## How Hashcode calculated
- A hashcode is an integer value that represents the state of the object upon which it was called. 
- That is why an Integer that is set to 1 will return a hashcode of "1" because an Integer's hashcode and its value are the same thing. 
- A character's hashcode is equal to it's ASCII character code. 
- If you write a custom type you are responsible for creating a good hashCode implementation that will best represent the state of the current instance.
- String's Hash Code is - sum of the ascii code % size of the array
- for ada, sum of ascii code is (65+100+97) = 262%11 = 9
- 
## Object Reference Number
- System.identityHashCode(object) return the memory location of object.
- Returns the same hash code for the given object as would be returned by the default method hashCode(), whether or not the given object's class overrides hashCode(). 
- The hash code for the null reference is zero.
- Person p = new Person();
- int referenceNumber = System.identityHashCode(p)
- Above class will return the unique identity number of the object.
- Integer.toHexString(System.identityHashCode(object));

## Hashing
- The process of assigning a unique value to an object or attribute using an algorithm, which enables quicker access, is known as hashing.

## General Information of Hashcode
- When it is invoked more than once during the execution of an application, the hashCode() method will consistently return the same hash code (integer value). Note that the object should not be modified.
- If the two objects are equal according to the equals() method, then invoking the hashCode() method on these two objects must produce the same integer value.
- It is not necessary that if the two objects are unequal according to equals() method, then invoking the hashCode() method on these two objects may produce distinct integer value. It means that it can produce the same hash code for both objects.

## Difference Between == Operator and equals() Method
- In Java, the == operator compares that two references are identical or not. Whereas the equals() method compares two objects.
- Objects are equal when they have the same state (usually comparing variables). Objects are identical when they share the class identity.
- For example, the expression obj1==obj2 tests the identity, not equality. While the expression obj1.equals(obj2) compares equality.


